Technical advisory 110363 (#17872)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/advisories/a110363.md

---
title: Technical Advisory 110363
advisory: A-110363

> summary: Clusters using row-level TTL and upgraded from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 may see nodes crashing due to a necessary metadata field being erroneously deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Clusters using row-level TTL and upgraded from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 may experience nodes crashing due to the erroneous deletion of a necessary metadata field.
```

toc: true

> affected_versions: v22.2.x

Reviewer: Would we not want to list v23.1.9 here as well? Or even have "Clusters running v22.2.x upgrading to v23.1.9"?
It seems like there are some other cases of a sentence here instead of just the version numbers, if you check out this page: https://deploy-preview-17872--cockroachdb-docs.netlify.app/docs/advisories/

Author: I considered adding v23.1.9 but wasn't sure about that. I like your suggestion of adding a complete sentence -- seems clearer to me. @rimadeodhar does that sound okay?

Reviewer 2: SGTM.

Author: @dikshant we already say that in the summary. Not sure we need to repeat it for affected versions 🤔

Reviewer 3: Okay sounds good.

advisory_date: 2023-09-12
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

## Description

> A CockroachDB cluster using [row-level TTL](../v23.1/row-level-ttl.html) for a table schedules background jobs that periodically delete expired data and adds a field to the table metadata to indicate that the row-level TTL feature has been enabled for the table. Upgrading the cluster from CockroachDB v22.2.x to v23.1.9 erroneously deletes the field from the table metadata, causing the scheduled background jobs for that table to crash upon upgrade. This issue affects clusters that meet all of the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A CockroachDB cluster using [row-level TTL](../v23.1/row-level-ttl.html) for a table schedules background jobs that periodically delete expired data and add a field to the table metadata to indicate that the row-level TTL feature has been enabled for the table. Upgrading the cluster from CockroachDB v22.2.x to v23.1.9 erroneously deletes the field from the table metadata, causing the scheduled background jobs for that table to crash upon upgrade. 

This issue affects clusters that meet all of the following conditions:
```

I assume that "add" here is something that the "jobs" are doing.

> - The cluster was running CockroachDB v22.2.x.

Reviewer: I think it may be good to keep this list to emphasize the conditions here, but leave this up to you!

> - The cluster was running CockroachDB v22.2.x.

Reviewer 2: From experience with previous TAs, I have found adding a list to be useful in reiterating the criteria to determine if a cluster maybe impacted. I would prefer to keep it in.

> - The cluster was running CockroachDB v22.2.x.

Author: Ah, gotcha. Okay!

- The cluster is upgraded to v23.1.9.
- The cluster contains any databases using the row-level TTL feature for their tables.

## Statement

> This is resolved in CockroachDB by [#110364](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110364) which prevents deletion of the TTL field upon upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is resolved in CockroachDB by [#110364](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/110364), which prevents deletion of the TTL field upon upgrade.
```

The fix will be available in CockroachDB v23.1.10.

This public issue is tracked by [#110363](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/110363).

## Mitigation

Users of CockroachDB v22.2.x  using row-level TTL should not upgrade to 23.1.9 and are advised to either upgrade to 23.1.8 or wait for 23.1.10. 

> If you are not using row-level TTL or if you are using row-level TTL but are already on version 23.1.x, this recommendation does not apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not using row-level TTL, or if you are using row-level TTL but are already on version 23.1.x, this recommendation does not apply.
```

If you think you have already encountered this problem, please reach out to the [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/) for assistance.

## Impact

> Customers using row-level TTL for their cluster and upgrading from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 can see nodes crashing due to background jobs for TTL failing. Customers who are on v22.2.x with TTL enabled are encouraged to upgrade to 23.1.10 once released and skip 23.1.9.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers using row-level TTL for their cluster and upgrading from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 can experience nodes crashing due to background jobs for TTL failing. Customers who are on v22.2.x with TTL enabled are encouraged to upgrade to 23.1.10 once released and skip 23.1.9.
```

> Customers using row-level TTL for their cluster and upgrading from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 can see nodes crashing due to background jobs for TTL failing. Customers who are on v22.2.x with TTL enabled are encouraged to upgrade to 23.1.10 once released and skip 23.1.9.

Reviewer 2: Please can we change this text to match the mitigation>
```suggestion
Customers using row-level TTL for their cluster and upgrading from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 can see nodes crashing due to background jobs for TTL failing. Customers who are on v22.2.x with TTL enabled should not upgrade to 23.1.9 and are advised to either upgrade to 23.1.8 or wait for 23.1.10.
```

---
title: Technical Advisory 110363
advisory: A-110363
summary: Clusters using row-level TTL and upgraded from v22.2.x to 23.1.9 may experience nodes crashing due to the erroneous deletion of a necessary metadata field.
toc: true

> affected_versions: Clusters running v22.2.x upgrading to v23.1.9

Reviewer 3: Can we make this more specific?
> Clusters running row level TTL on v22.2.x that are upgrading to v23.1.9
